Under the covers, grails is a SpringMVC application

grails is built on the spring framework.  Cannot be built on another framework.
Spring isn't going to leak through any of the abstractions.  
Persistence is based on Hibernate -> skilled users of hibernate are much happier with GORM.
	GORM = Grails Object Relational Mapper
Uses SiteMesh for its page decoration framework.

To create a domain controller:
create-domain-class com.oreilly.Poet
- packages this as java style.  Can find it in grails-app/domain...
- not a whole lot in there initially, a skeleton class

Scaffolding provides CRUD for building applications:
1.  create-controller <domain classname>

Default scaffolding sets the order and makes the key link on the view whatever was first - in our poetry example, death date was the key but was blank

DB:
1.  by default, grails comes with the h2 database
2.  by default, grails runs in memory mode
	- so that you can start out trying things out without worrying about schema migration


configuration happens in grails-app/conf
...let's reconfigure gorm to look into mysql

generate-all - fills your object with code

Grails is a request-based framework.  Data comes in in an http request, gets delegated to some code, does stuff, returns html.  Nothing new.  A very thin layer, nothing very abstract.  The general problem in the http framework is associating a URI request with code - don't want a huge switch statement.

consider a url - http://localhost:8080/poetry/poem/show/1
	- poem: the word poem identifies the controller.  Poem maps to controller directory object which starts with Poem and ends with word Controller:
		PoemController
		(convention over configuration)
	- show: a method.  Show is part of the default REST-based method listing.

Controllers are classes that process requests.  Classes mapped by convention from the URL.
- they perform actions in the class which are methods that do the work
- in previous versions of grails, the actions were closures but now they are just actions
	- this is beneficial.  Consider the case when the you are collecting a name and email
	- handles the form mapping with method params like SpringMVC
- you can still override the conventions

i18n built-in to the application with message.properties

Wrapping Up: 
Favorite request based convention over configuration platform
Most people approaching grails have no groovy
It's a huge framework - refer to the documentation early and often

When to use grails over java?  
- Use grails for teams of the jvm 
- When you have a java team, go grails, especially because it helps you bring new folks on who don't know java as well

Web Frameworks are a gateway drug - if you want a language to take off, provide a killer web app support framework, as proven with Ruby/Rails and Groovy/Grails.
Grails has tried to take the best of Rails.  No shame in that.  They are independent products but grails has tried to follow in the spirit of the rails convention-over-configuration scaffolding model.